This lecture is not specific to Node, but
it is important when you're talking about production
images. It's a lot of things that people leave out, or they
forget, when they first start getting started.
I just want to give you some tips so that you have the
knowledge to make sure that your images are truly
production ready.
The first thing I tend to harp on with teams
that I'm working with is documentation in these files.
They all support commenting.
So, do that.
Make sure you're commenting in your Dockerfile when things
aren't obvious.
When you start to get into multistage and you're getting
complex Dockerfiles that potentially are 100 lines
or larger, it's definitely worth commenting
on why stages exist.
Or maybe what stages that stage is coming from.
Because sometimes, it's not obvious to read through a
Dockerfile that has three, four or five or more stages
and figure out which stages depend on other ones.
We don't really have a great tool, yet, that will show us
exactly which stages are in which order so
that you know what's really going to happen when you build
an image. Make sure you put that in comments.
I wouldn't comment on easy things, like maybe just a
standard copy command. Those don't usually need any
explanation or a work directory.
But, run commands that are fairly complex, definitely
comment on them and why they do what they do.
Then add labels, which we'll get to in the next slide.
A little thing that I do for Node is that
when I'm building my production images, I add in the
npm config list command into
my runs right before I do an npm install.
This actually dumps out a little config
info on exactly how the Node in npm
is set up. That's good for my logging.
In case I ever have any problems, I can make sure that yes,
the Node version I expect is there.
Yes, the config options are set as I expect them to be,
and so on. Just throw that in your run lines.
It takes a second to run during the build, so it's sort of
additional bonus info.
I want to take just a second to update you on your
label knowledge.
Those are things that aren't required in Dockerfiles.
Often we forget about them.
Then when we get into production, it gets harder for us to
see what's going on because we're lacking the proper
metadata. If you've known about labels for a
while, there was a previous attempt at a label
spec years back.
But here in 2019, we're now following the OCI
standard for labeling.
So, there's a reference link in this video, and
I want to show you a file, in a second, that shows
the real labels that you might use.
The resource links, obviously, is going to give you lots of
detail about all the options.
Then you can make your own labels as well.
If you need some of those labels to be dynamic, then that's
when you use build arguments, or ARGs,
in your Dockerfiles that you would set during
the build commands that would then put that information
into your Dockerfile, set those labels and then that
becomes a permanent part of the image metadata.
In case you're using Docker Hub for some of your images,
or any other registry, those registries
may build images for you like Docker Hub does.
Docker Hub has its own set of environment variables that
you can put into build ARGs and then put
into labels.
Check out the reference links on this video for links
over to the Docker Hub documentation on what environment
variables they give you so that you can put more detail
into your labels and know what was going on at the time of
your builds. Let's jump real quick into a sample
directory I created for you called dockerfile labels.
Really, the only purpose I have for you here, on this
sample directory and Dockerfile, is to see some real-world
labels in action.
You'll see here, at the top, that I have set two build
arguments. The created date and then the source commit.
You'll see that I've actually set those to not set.
Those are the defaults. That way, if you don't set them
at Docker build command time, you will get
not set as their values.
That way, at least something is in there.
Then below, I have set some of the labels that I
think are the most common.
There's obviously lots of other options.
There's description, and other things that you can do, that
aren't in this particular example.
But, you'll see that they start with org.opencontainers.image. That
is the OCI standard that we're all now agreeing to.
The little parts after that, including authors, created,
revision,
those are all premade labels by them.
So, these are basically the standards that we can expect to
start seeing in images.
So, if you start putting this in your public images, as
well as in your team's private images, you will have
consistent standards. Then you can start relying on these
labels in production and in your CI systems.
So, I think that just kind of makes sense, right.
Once you jump into the next part down here at the bottom,
is the cool part, where you can label custom labels.
Of course, you can put anything you want in a label, but
we're trying to all agree on a standard.
That way, when you're sharing things, other people
understand where that's coming from.
In my example, if I had my own Node project here,
I would use maybe the domain name of the website,
or the organization, and you do it in reverse format, just
like you do with open containers.
I made my own label here, per their spec
of com.bretfisher.node version.
I'm pulling the Node version environment variable
from the previous image, or the from image
in my line 1.
That's something else you can do, obviously, with anything
in your Dockerfile. You can pull environment variables out
of images that it comes from.
So, that's what I'm doing here. That way, in my labels,
I have the exact Node version that I'm coming from.
If you want to get more information on labels, check out
the references that takes you to the GitHub link for the
spec. That spec may change, or be expanded, over time.
So, it might be slightly different once you look at it
based on what's going on in the industry.
Hopefully, we'll see a lot more of the images accepting
this standard. Because right now, I don't see a lot of
commitment from the community or the official images.
But, it would be really nice if we could all rely on these
labels and start using them as a consistent metadata
experience.
One, last little suggestion is to also
add comments to your Compose files.
The nice thing about YAML vs JSON is that YAML supports
inline comments, which is great.
I often put comments into my real-world Compose files
on a few key areas. One of those is anything
that I'm doing to override, or something that's quite
custom, I like to put in comments on volumes that aren't
obvious. That way, people know why the volumes are
being mapped there.
I also like to put in any time I override something, like a
command, the cmd, when I override that, I will comment
on it, if it's not completely obvious to someone.
If you start using templates, which I really suggest you
do, templates is in a previous lecture when you learned
about Compose files.
There was a lecture around templating at the very
top of your YAML and using YAML templating.
Up there, when you have that template, maybe just talk
about why that template exists, or one or two lines.
Then, if you use override files, which is a feature
of Docker Compose where you can have multiple files
chained, or an official one that's called docker
compose.override.yaml.
Those types of files, I like to put in there, comments at
the very top, why those files even exist.
Why are they separate from the standard file of just
Docker Compose YAML.
So, more documentation, the better.
Hopefully, these comments and documentation tips will
help your Docker experience be more awesome, help you
share more with others, which is all about DevOps.
It's all about sharing.
That's what we want to get across here is definitely
be sharing everything you can, whether it's open source
or in your team. Next up, we're going to talk about
testing.